everybody welcome to another free art
lesson with John Hudson burger we've
gone over one in two point perspective
already we're going to continue on now
with the often forgotten third point
perspective
I've already got my horizon line laid
out here and the one and two points are
already set on it at opposite ends what
I'm going to do now is introduce a third
point right down here at the bottom
point number three now three point
perspective it can look a little
dramatic at times it gives like kind of
really bold sort of almost like
comic-book esque type effects it really
kind of like pulls your pulls your
points around like pulls them all out of
whack and uh just can make them look
pretty pretty distorted if you don't use
it subtly so what I'm going to start out
here is same as before
once again our old friend the cube
re-emerges got my my front facing line
right here where the the two side planes
would meet and I'm going to throw these
little tracer lines back to the the one
point one and two on the horizon now
where the the Third Point comes in is
instead of simply making these sidelines
here exactly parallel to my Center one
I'm instead going to
throw lines out like that
up towards the horizon line fill in my
bottom edge here and I've got my two
side planes already laid in there for me
now I'm just going to put in the top
plane here and that those go back to
points one and two fill that in and what
you're kind of left with here is sort of
a skyscraper type looking thing this
would maybe maybe you could utilize this
technique if you are trying to you know
draw a cityscape or something like that
kind of shot from a bird's eye view it
also will work in the reverse and over
here got my horizon line set lower to
the bottom edge of the paper in this
case and once again to start out with
the line that's basically directly in
front of you where the two side planes
will meet throw the lines that are going
to become the side points actually I got
a little carried away forgot to put my
third point in but it's not too late
just point number three directly above
throw that down to either side of that
and then you just simply lock in the
side plans here so what if this ends up
giving you is basically kind of an
effect of being low to the ground sort
of a well I guess the opposite of a
bird's-eye view would be like a bug's
eye view so if we can call it that and
that's pretty much the the basics of
three-point perspective thanks for
thanks for watching
you